Add 7579 tutorial (#514)
safe-global/safe-docs: pages/advanced/erc-7579/tutorials/7579-tutorial.mdx

# **How to build an app with Safe and 7579**

The smart account ecosystem was fragmented, with each provider building its own modules often incompatible with other smart account implementations. Developers had to build new modules compatible with their smart accounts or miss out on essential application features.

[ERC-7579](https://docs.safe.global/advanced/erc-7579/overview) aims to ensure interoperability across implementations. It defines the account interface so developers can implement modules for all smart accounts that follow this standard. The Safe7579 Adapter makes your Safe compatible with any 7579 modules. As a developer building with Safe, you get access to a rich ecosystem of modules to make your application feature-rich.

> Let's say you want to build an app to enable scheduling transfers for monthly salaries to a team of contributors. However, Safe does not offer a native module for scheduling transfers. With the 7579 compatibility, you can use Rhinestone's [Scheduled Transfer module](https://github.com/rhinestonewtf/modulekit/blob/examples/audit-ready/examples/src/ScheduledTransfers/ScheduledTransfers.sol) with Safe to build an app to schedule transfers ahead of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you want to build an app to enable scheduling transfers for monthly salaries to a team of contributors. However, Safe does not offer a native module for scheduling transfers. With the 7579 compatibility, you can use Rhinestone's [Scheduled Transfer module](https://github.com/rhinestonewtf/core-modules/blob/main/src/ScheduledTransfers/ScheduledTransfers.sol) with Safe to build an app to schedule transfers ahead of time.
```

Reviewer: this is the latest version

This tutorial will teach you to build an app that can:

- Deploy a 7579-enabled Safe.
- Create a scheduled transaction.
- Execute it at the requested date and time.

![screenshot](../../../../assets/7579-tutorial.png)

> ## What you’ll need

Reviewer 2: Should it be renamed `Prerequisites` like in our guides?

**Prerequisite knowledge:** You will need some basic experience with [React](https://react.dev/learn), [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs), [ERC-4337](https://docs.safe.global/home/4337-overview) and ERC-7579.

Before progressing with the tutorial, please make sure you have:

- Downloaded and installed [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager) and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation).
- Created an API key from [Pimlico](https://www.pimlico.io/).

> **Note:** If you wish to follow along using the completed project, you can [check out the GitHub repository](https://github.com/5afe/safe-7579-tutorial) for this tutorial.

Reviewer: this looks like a wrong link/private repo fyi

Reviewer 3: @louis-md can we make this public - should be fine to already do that :)

> ## **1. Setup a Next.js application**

Reviewer 2: Using the `<Steps/>` component like in our guides would make the separation of the different sections nicer.

Author: I understand @tanay1337 was not in favor of using Steps for these tutorials!

Initialize a new Next.js app using pnpm with the following command:

```shell
pnpm create next-app
```

When prompted by the CLI:

- Select `yes` to TypeScript, ESLint, and App router.

> - Select `no` to all other questions (Tailwind, `src` directory, and import aliases).

Reviewer: no tailwind 😭

### **Install dependencies**

> For this project, we'll use Pimlico's [Permissionless.js](https://docs.pimlico.io/permissionless) to set up a Safe, Rhinestone's [Module SDK](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk) for ERC-7579 functionalities, and [viem](https://www.npmjs.com/package/viem) for some helper functions.

Reviewer: yeah module sdk is split into two sets of functionality: interacting with the account to install/uninstall modules and using the integrated core modules; in this case, permissionless is also used for the former so it would make sense to change to something like:

Permissionless.js to set up a Safe and interact with it, Rhinestone's Module SDK to install and use core modules, ...

![screenshot-default](../../../../assets/next.png)

## 2. Initialize `permissionless` client

Create a `lib` folder at project root, and add a file `permissionless.ts`:

```shell
mkdir lib
cd lib
touch permissionless.ts
```

Add the code necessary to create Pimlico’s `smartAccountClient` by adding this content to `permissionless.ts` :

```typescript
// from ../../../../examples/erc-7579/lib/permissionless.ts
```

It will load a `PRIVATE_KEY` from `.env.local` (or generate one if it doesn’t exist) and then create the `publicClient`, `paymasterClient` and `bundlerClient` necessary to initialize the `permissionless` library. It then creates a 7579-enabled Safe Smart Account from the generated private key, before passing it to `createSmartAccountClient` to generate a Permissionless client.

## 3. Add Rhinestone module functionality

Create a new file `scheduledTransfers.ts` in the `lib` folder:

```shell
touch scheduledTransfers.ts
```

Add the code necessary to create a scheduled transfer using Rhinestone’s `ScheduledTransfers` module:
```typescript
// from ../../../../examples/erc-7579/lib/scheduledTransfers.ts
```

> This file contains two functions:

Reviewer 3: Would be helpful to add a bit more explanation about what is going on in the code (either as explanation/comments).

> - `install7579Module` will install the module to a Safe and schedule its first transfer; 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `install7579Module` will install the module to a Safe and schedule its first transfer.
```

- `scheduleTransfer` to schedule transfers in a Safe where the module has been previously installed.

> 

Reviewer 3: Would be good to mention what other features this modules provides to give some ideas about the power of this module. We can mention things like recurring transfers, etc. Also to mention that we've skipped over some of these to keep the tutorial brief, but they can try these out.

> ## 4. Add simple UI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 4. Add the web interface
```

Now that we have the logic necessary to set up a safe and schedule a transfer, let's create a simple UI to interact with it. Create a new file `ScheduledTransferForm.tsx` in the `components` folder:

```shell
cd ..
mkdir components
cd components
touch ScheduledTransferForm.tsx
```

Add the following code to `ScheduledTransferForm.tsx`:

```tsx
// from ../../../../examples/erc-7579/components/ScheduledTransferForm.tsx
```

> This component will detect whether the Safe has the module installed, and allow the user to input the amount, receiver address, and date and time for the scheduled transfer.

Reviewer 3: I am missing some context/explanation of the code.

Now, edit `app/page.tsx` to include the `ScheduledTransferForm` component:

```tsx
// from ../../../../examples/erc-7579/app/page.tsx
```

## 5. Add styling (optional)

We can add some styling to our app by editing the contents of `layout.tsx` in `app` folder:

```tsx
// from ../../../../examples/erc-7579/app/layout.tsx
```

This will add some basic styling to the app, including a header. You can also add some custom CSS to `globals.css` in the same folder:

```css
h1,
h2,
h3 {
  margin-top: 40px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

button {
  cursor: pointer;
  border: none;
  background: #00e673;
  color: black;
  padding: 10px 20px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  margin: 10px 0;
}

input {
  padding: 10px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  margin: 10px 0;
}

button:disabled {
  background: #ccc;
  color: #666;
}
```

> ## **Testing your Safe 7579 app**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **Testing your Safe ERC-7579-compatible app**
```

> That's it! You can find the source code for the example created in this tutorial [on GitHub](https://github.com/5afe/safe-7559-tutorial). You can now return to your browser and see the app displayed 🎉.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's it! You can find the source code for the example created in this tutorial [on GitHub](https://github.com/5afe/safe-7559-tutorial). You can now return to your browser and see the app displayed.
```

![screenshot-finalized](../../../../assets/7579-tutorial-2.png)

> Click the **Create Safe** button to initialize Permissionless' client with the private key you stored on `.env.local`. It will deploy an ERC-7579-enabled Safe on its first transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the **Create Safe** button to initialize Permissionless' client with the private key you stored on `.env.local` file. It will deploy an ERC-7579-compatible Safe Smart Account on its first transaction.
```

![screenshot](../../../../assets/7579-tutorial.png)

> Once loaded, you will be able to chose an amount to send, a receiver address and select a date and time for your scheduled payment. Click **Schedule Transfer** to send the transaction. The first time you do this, it will deploy the Safe to Sepolia test network and install the ERC-7579 compatible ScheduledTransfers module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once loaded, you will be able to chose an amount to send, a receiver address and select a date and time for your scheduled payment. Click **Schedule Transfer** to send the transaction. The first time you do this, it will deploy the Safe to Sepolia test network and install the ERC-7579-compatible ScheduledTransfers module.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: We should add a screenshot here with a confirmation modal (or however we show confirmation that a transaction has been submitted).

> ## **Do more with Safe and 7579**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **Do more with Safe and ERC-7579**
```

> Today, we learned how to deploy a 7579-enabled Safe and use a 7579-compatible module, the Scheduled Transfer from Rhinestone. We hope you enjoyed this tutorial and that the combination of Safe and 7579 will allow you to tap into new functionalities for your decentralized apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We learned how to deploy an ERC-7579-compatible Safe Smart Account and use an ERC-7579-compatible module, the Scheduled Transfer from Rhinestone. We hope you enjoyed this tutorial and that the combination of Safe and ERC-7579 will allow you to tap into new functionalities for your decentralized apps.
```

> As a next step, you can add more functionalities to your app using other [7579-compatible modules](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk/modules/ownable-validator). Here are some ideas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a next step, you can add more functionalities to your app using other [ERC-7579-compatible modules](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk/modules/ownable-validator). Here are some ideas:
```

- [Create a dead man switch](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk/modules/deadman-switch) in case your account becomes inactive after a certain amount of time.
- Add [multi-factor validation](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk/modules/mfa-validator) to your Smart Account.
- [Designate an owner](https://docs.rhinestone.wtf/module-sdk/modules/ownable-executor) that can act on your behalf for executing transactions and pay for gas.

> You can also find more inspiration on this list of [awesome 7579 modules](https://github.com/rhinestonewtf/awesome-modular-accounts?tab=readme-ov-file#modules). You can also read more about this ERC in our [overview](https://docs.safe.global/advanced/erc-7579/overview) or in the [official documentation](https://erc7579.com/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also find more inspiration on this list of [ERC-7579 modules](https://github.com/rhinestonewtf/awesome-modular-accounts?tab=readme-ov-file#modules). You can also read more about this ERC in our [overview](https://docs.safe.global/advanced/erc-7579/overview) or in the [official documentation](https://erc7579.com/).
```
